MIRACL is a highly efficient and portable Multiprecision Integer and Rational 
Arithmetic C/C++ Library. Full source code is provided. Its main area of 
application is in the implementation of Public Key Cryptography systems and
protocols. Many example programs are provide. 

To access the software, download the file miracl.zip.

If using Windows decompress all files into a single DOS directory MIRACL

To build the standard library in this directory using the Microsoft compiler, 
first make sure that paths are set up correctly by running the Microsoft 
supplied batch files vcvars32 or vcvars64 (for 32-bit or 64-bit environments 
respectively), or vcvarsall <param> to set up a named environment

Then execute either ms32doit.bat or ms64doit.bat (for 32-bit or 64-bit builds resp.)


If using Linux, read the following carefully


------------------------------------------------
RedHat Linux 6.0 MIRACL i386 installation

Download the MIRACL.ZIP file, and save it into an otherwise empty MIRACL directory.

1. Unzip the MIRACL.ZIP file using the unix utility unzip

unzip -j -aa -L miracl.zip

The -j ignores the directory structure inside MIRACL.ZIP. The -aa converts all 
text files to Unix format, and -L ensures that all filenames are lower-case.


2. Perform a tailored build of the MIRACL library by opening an X-Term, and 
   typing

bash linux

   Alternatively if your system is 64-bit

bash linux64

3. All the MIRACL applications (except RATCALC) can be then be built, as 
   desired. Remember to link all C applications to the miracl.a library.
   C++ applications must be linked as well to one or more of big.o monty.o 
   elliptic.o crt.o flash.o object files etc. 
   Some applications (like factor.c) that require floating-point support 
   may also require -lm in the compile command line.

Make sure that your Linux PATH points to the current directory, so that 
exectables can be run.

Note that Linux already has (a rather pathetic) factor program. To avoid name 
clashes you might rename MIRACL's "factor" program to "facter", or somesuch.


------------------------------------------------


The manual is available in MS Word format as MANUAL.DOC

The text file UPDATE.TXT describes the latest changes and additions

Latest Version - V5.6.1   Last updated June 2012

